Rework Z-Wave docs (#19962)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/z-wave/controllers.markdown

description: "Extended instructions how to setup Z-Wave."
---

> ## Supported Z-Wave USB Sticks & Hardware Modules

Author: I want to keep this page since we use it in all three integration pages.

You need to have a compatible Z-Wave stick or module installed. This needs to be a *static controller*, which most Z-Wave sticks and modules will be, and not a *bridge* device. The following devices have been confirmed to work:

- Aeotec Z-Stick Gen5 (see note below)
- Everspring USB stick - Gen 5
- GoControl HUSBZB-1 stick
- Sigma Designs UZB stick
- Silicon Labs SLUSB7000A
- Vision USB stick - Gen5
- ZWave.me Razberry Board
- ZWave.me UZB1 stick

We recommend that you purchase a [Z-Wave Plus](https://z-wavealliance.org/z-wave_plus_certification/) controller, to take advantage of the improvements this provides. As OpenZWave doesn't support S2 or Smart Start, there's no need to buy one just for support of these features.

<div class='note'>

>   If you're using Supervisor or running Home Assistant in a Docker container, it's recommended to use a USB stick, not a module. Passing a module through Docker is more complicated than passing a USB stick through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you're using Home Assistant OS, Supervised, or Container, it's recommended to use a USB stick, not a module. Passing a module through Docker is more complicated than passing a USB stick through.
```

## Controller Notes

### Aeotec Z-Stick

<div class='note'>

There are [known compatibility issues](https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=28&t=245031#p1502030) with older hardware versions of the Aeotec stick not working on the Raspberry Pi 4. Aeotec has released a 2020 hardware revision ZW090-A/B/C Gen5+ with Pi 4 compatibility. Both hardware revisions are still being sold, make informed purchasing decisions if using paired with a Pi 4.

</div>

It's totally normal for your Z-Wave stick to cycle through its LEDs (Yellow, Blue and Red) while plugged into your system. If you don't like this behavior it can be turned off.

> Use the following example commands from a terminal session on your Pi where your Z-Wave stick is connected.

Reviewer: This is a bit of a nasty section IMHO. Considering most of our users are running Home Assistant OS.

It doesn't have to be a Pi, and stopping Home Assistant isn't that obvious I guess.

Author: Should we just remove it?

Reviewer: Yeah, let's do that.
